well the organization of Islamic
cooperation has condemned the
assassination of Hamas leader Ismael
hania in tyan and called it a serious
infringement of Iran's sovereignty
foreign Ministers of the Islamic block
held an emergency meeting in jeda to
discuss the killing and Iran's response
in a joint statement the 57 members said
they held Israel fully responsible for
the attack on hania Iran has blamed
Israel and vowed Revenge Israel has
neither confirmed nor denied
responsibility author and Middle East
analyst Laura Blumenfeld is joining me
now for more on this thanks for joining
us uh so we saw Saudi Arabia stepping up
to defend Iran's sovereignty at this
meeting that's despite the fact that the
two countries are sometimes described as
Arch Rivals is something shifting
here yeah it's a fascinating uh event
today um yes they are reconciled
recently actually by at China helped
broker that um reconciled but they are
still Rivals so the question is what
what is the significance for this 57 uh
block statement joint statement I mean
on the one hand you could say it's
worrying that they're rubber stamping
some kind of uh retaliation which would
lead to further escalation on the other
hand the positive view which I take is
that by acknowledging what Israel has
done uh you know Israel hasn't claimed
responsibility for it but by
acknowledging their hurt it takes away
the sting and need for a Revenge often
uh what a country needs is an
acknowledgement that they have been
harmed and what what the statement
provided today was just
that the us as well uh said that they
hope the members of the OIC kind of what
you're saying there will try to
deescalate um you know take the pressure
out of the situation and convince Iran
not to retaliate or to retaliate in a
way that doesn't escalate do you think
that that's a likely scenario
here I I'm growing more optimistic by
the hour look Revenge as a weapon is a
currency and it can be devalued um Iran
is facing what you might call
retaliation inflation because when they
struck back at Israel in April clearly
that didn't gain them the deterence that
they were seeking so now they really are
feeling like they have to do something
to save face if nothing else and so with
this kind of diplomatic flurry um
whether it's through the Islamic Nations
uh States um or you know Western
European allies that are also all kind
of in a frenzy and then also the
military pressure I mean the United
States sent um you know f-22s they're
almost like high-tech messenger pigeons
flying over to the Middle East with
dropping a one-word note which is
don't uh so we just talked about Saudi
Arabia here of often described as a
rival of Iran they actually helped
Israel shoot down those missiles that
Iran launched in the last round of
retaliation Jordan is also part of uh
this organization of Islamic States um
was also part of the group that helped
Israel shoot down these missiles so what
you're saying is you're reading this
statement here not necessarily as a
shift away from Israel but as a kind of
attempt to find a diplomatic solution to
this there's tremendous tension and
there's divisions within the group
itself I mean there's this tension
between ideology and practicality right
Saudi Arabia is looking at Vision 2030
they're trying to diversify their
economy in the middle of this there's
this October 7th attack it kind of blows
their whole plan out of the water I
think the question here is blood thicker
than liquidity right one of their
brothers was assassinated in Iran but
every country in the region including
Iran is struggling economically so it's
a fascinating struggle here and and you
know time will tell which will
prevail and um just shifting Focus the
Palestinian militant group amas has
named Yaya senoir as its political
leader um how have or have the OIC
member states reacted to this
Choice well I think that they welcome
senoir they respect one thing that
they're very you know careful to do is
to respect whatever Palestinian
leadership is in place um that's the
very least that they can do given that
they haven't none of these countries
those that have uh relations with Israel
they haven't broken diplomatic ties so
you know if they can't do anything in
Deeds at least they can do something in
words and and that's the criticism of
that that it's just lip service to the
Palestinian cause but what are they
actually going to do how will they back
that up with any kind of muscle Middle
East analyst Laura Blumenfeld thanks for
joining us many thanks